We're going to make a [__] Spark
plug-in Blender from scratch with
perfect topology. I did my best to make
this a beginner friendly tutorial, so
even if you're a beginner, you should be
able to follow along. If I missed
something important, then let me know
down in the comments. I can make another
video to explain that. Now, let's quit
wasting time on an intro. Let's start
the video. Anytime you're starting a
project of any sort, the very first
thing you do is you go to Google images
and you type in the name of whatever it
is that you're trying to model. So in
this case, you go to Google images, you
type in spark plug and you locate a
couple of pictures which are going to
show you very clearly the thing that you
want to model in Blender. Now usually
you need two kinds of references. You
need one reference which is going to be
a background image and this is something
that you're going to trace with your
geometry. So you make sure you have the
right proportions and dimensions and
then the second kind of image you want
to have is just something that you look
at on the side. You probably want a
couple of different images which are
going to show you that object from
several different angles. And that way
you're going to be able to see all the
details which you have to create on the
3D model. Now the background image like
this one right here, you can just
rightclick save image as save that to
your computer somewhere. And if you're
modeling something more complex, which
is going to require a lot of different
reference images, you'll probably want
to make a different folder on your
computer where you're going to save all
your references. In this case, it's just
one image, so it doesn't really matter.
You don't have to make a folder. But
now, we downloaded the background
reference image, and now we have to take
a couple more images, which we're going
to look at as we model. Now, if you have
a second monitor, then you just take
this window and you throw it onto your
second monitor. That's what I like to
do. It's the most convenient way to look
at references. But if you don't have a
second monitor, you go to Google, you
type in Pure Ref, you find this little
program right here, and you download
that. It's completely free. And when you
open up that little program, it's going
to give you this black canvas. So, you
can just right click on an image, copy
image. Click on the window, Ctrl +V to
paste it there. And now you can look at
it as you're working. So, you want to
collect a bunch of different pictures,
which you're going to paste into this
little window. Maybe you want to get
some close-ups as well. Maybe you want a
couple of these, but I don't think I
need them right now. We can get some
more later if we're going to need them.
And in Blender, you can just put this
little window on top of your little
outliner over here because you're not
going to need that for the most part
anyway. And also, you want to right
click on this window, go down to mode,
and check always on top. That way, it's
not going to disappear when you click on
Blender. And to load in your background
reference, you're going to press one to
go to front view. And then you press
shift A, go down here to image, and
click on reference right here. And I use
this shitty Blender file browser to find
your reference image. Reason I say it's
shitty because it's completely broken. I
don't want to get into it, but if you've
used Blender a lot, then you know what
I'm talking about. You find your image
in your folder. We got our spark plug
right here. We're going to add that
image into the scene. And there we go.
Now we got the spark plug. The problem
is that it's in the middle of our scene.
It's kind of bothering us. So, we're
going to press G and Y to move it
backwards along the Y-axis. And now it's
not colliding with our mesh. We're also
going to make it a little bit bigger
like this. And it's a little bit too
bright. So, I'm going to go over here to
object data properties on the right
side. I like to check opacity and reduce
that just a little bit so it's not that
bright. You don't have to do that if you
don't want to. It just makes it a little
bit more easy to look at in my opinion.
Now, we can delete the default cube and
we're going to go to front view. And
let's decide on what we're going to
model first. Let's start with the
simplest part first. And that's going to
be the top of the spark plug. So, maybe
we can select the image in the
background. We can lower it down in the
Z-axis a little bit. And now we're going
to start with shift a mesh. Add a circle
into the scene. Let's scale that circle
down a little bit like this. And we're
going to use this circle to shape out
the top of the spark plug. So, we
extrude that. We lower it down on the
Z-axis. We scale it up a little bit with
S. Then we extrude it again. We lower it
on the Z-axis. Then we extrude it again.
We scale it down a little bit. This part
is pretty simple. And now once we get it
to around here somewhere, we can take
this section and we can bevel it with
CtrlB. Maybe we scroll up a couple of
times. And this is pretty easy. Again,
we extrude it. We lower it down. We
scale it up. We extrude it down a little
bit more. Then we have this little ring
at the bottom. So extrude, scale up, and
extrude again. So nothing really new
here. It's just extruding, scaling,
moving up and down. It's nothing too
complicated. But here's the thing. Let's
talk about the very top of this spark
plug over here. Now, this is where
things get a little bit more
interesting. We have a couple of
different options for creating this.
Now, we could just select this loop at
the top, double G, and hold down Alt to
move it along these vertices like this.
And we could fill it and bevel it with
Ctrl +B. But I don't really like how
that looks. It doesn't really match this
curve in the reference image. We could
just make it flat like in this picture,
but that's not going to be cool enough.
I'm going to show you something new
today. We're going to bring this back
down to around here somewhere. And right
here at the top, right before this curve
here starts, we're going to go to object
mode. And in object mode, we're going to
add a cube. And that cube we're going to
subdivide with a subdivision surface
modifier so we can turn it into a ball.
So go to modifiers, you go to add
modifier, generate subdivision surface
modifier, and you're going to increase
the count here to three. Because when
you increase this to three, then this
cube has exactly 32 vertices around its
equator right over here. And we need
exactly 32 vertices because the circle
that we added in the beginning also had
exactly 32 vertices as any circle does
by default. And by the way, the reason
we're using a subdivided cube to make a
ball instead of just adding a UV sphere
is that a UV sphere has terrible
topology. If you look at the top of the
UV sphere, we have a bunch of edges
connecting into one vertex over here.
This is something called an e- pole. And
when you have an e- pole on a curved
surface, it's bound to give you all
sorts of problems. Especially if you're
trying to use a subdivision surface
modifier on that object, like we are
planning to do over here on this one
down here. When you use a subdivision
surface modifier on a UV sphere, you get
this little thing over here at the top.
And that doesn't look very good. This is
one of the things that can happen as a
result of bad topology. And a UV sphere
is bad topology. So it can just give you
all sorts of problems. I don't want to
go too deep on why this is happening.
But if you want to learn more about
topology and how this stuff works so you
can avoid these kind of issues, I have a
whole topology section in my Blender
masterclass course. So if you want to
avoid making beginner mistakes and if
you want to avoid having unexpected
issues on your models and go check that
out. There's a link in the description.
But let's get back to our cube here.
We're going to apply the subdivision
surface modifier over here. And the
problem is that it's not a perfect
sphere yet. And we can prove that by
adding the UV sphere, which is perfectly
circular over here next to this cube.
You can see that the subdivided cube
still has a little bit of a square shape
if you compare it to the UV sphere. And
to fix that, we're going to use another
modifier called a cast modifier. So
we're going to take this subdivided ball
over here, add modifier. This time we're
going to go to the deform section. In
the deform section, we're going to click
on cast. And the cast modifier is used
to reshape an object. So in this case,
we want to shape this like a sphere. As
you can see, the target shape here is
set to sphere. And you just want to set
the factor here to one. And once you do
that, you can apply this cast modifier.
And now this is a perfect sphere with
perfect topology. I know that making
this kind of sphere adds a few extra
steps. And right now it might seem a
little bit complicated for you if you're
a beginner, but believe me, if you're
trying to model with good topology,
which you should be if you're trying to
make a good quality model, if you're
serious about being a 3D artist, it's
absolutely worth taking the few extra
steps and spending a few extra seconds
because the overall quality of your
model later on is going to be a million
times better. And this is the difference
between an amateur and a pro. Let's get
back to the model now. We're going to go
back to front view over here with one.
And we're going to scale this down. And
we're also going to scale it down on the
Z-axis like this to make it nice and
flat. And then we can match some of the
geometry from this cube with the
geometry on whatever we have going on
underneath. So, check this out. If we
play around with this shape a little
bit, you're going to see that we can get
it pretty damn close to the shape of
this little surface at the top there.
Maybe we lift it up a little bit more.
Maybe we scale it down a little bit
more. So, we're going to place it around
here somewhere. And then we're going to
delete this section over here using our
box select tool. So you press B, you
select all the vertices down here, you
press X, and in this delete menu, you
want to delete your vertices. Notice how
there's a difference when you delete
your vertices versus when you delete
your faces. When we delete our faces,
it's only what's selected that gets
deleted. But if we delete our vertices,
it's also going to be this segment up
here that gets deleted. So watch that.
And of course, we wanted to delete that
segment. So that's why we deleted our
vertices. And now we take this object
and we shift select the object we had
before. We join those two with Ctrl J.
The selected objects are going to get
joined into the last object which was
selected which was this object down
here. And now we can edit them together.
So now we delete this face which we had
here at the top. We're going to press
two to enter edge select mode now
because that's going to allow us to
connect these two edge loops. So you
select these two edge loops. You press W
bridge edge loops. And this edge loop
here is still a little bit crooked. So
we're going to slide it down with double
G to around here somewhere. And then
just lift it up on the Z-axis and scale
it down a little bit. Now we shaped it
into a circle a little bit more. And
there we go. Now we got a nice soft top
over here. And it looks pretty nice. Now
it's time to add a subdivision surface
modifier to this object. So let's do
control 2 to add two levels of
subdivision surface. We're going to have
to take these edge loops over here in
edge select mode. And we're going to
bevel them just to make them a little
bit tighter. You can see that before we
bevel them, this is just a nice round
curve here. But after we bevel them,
these parts get a little bit sharper. So
you want to bevel them just a little bit
because that's what we can see in the
reference image in the background. It's
something like that. And over here we
want to make the bevels a little bit
sharper. So these two you're going to
select and bevel with CtrlB. We want a
smaller bevel here. That bevel is going
to have two segments and a profile shape
value of one. And then this thing down
here, let's just add a couple more loop
cuts to make it look a little bit more
like the reference image. This here I
also want to bevel to sharpen it. And
there we go. Now we made the top of our
spark plug. It looks pretty nice. Now is
a good time to save this. Remember to
save your file after you did a little
bit of work because Blender can crash
for no reason. That [__] happens all the
time. I can't tell you how many times I
lost my [__] mind because Blender
crashed on me for no reason. So, just
save this Blender file and then we're
going to move on to making this next
white part over here. Now, let's talk
about this next part, which is the wavy
white thing underneath the tip. I'm not
a mechanic. I don't know what this part
is for. If somebody is a mechanic, maybe
you can let us know in the comments cuz
I am curious, but I don't want to Google
it. This is going to require us to use
some precision tools because we have to
make sure that all these spacers here
are exactly even. So, first, let's go up
here. We're going to duplicate this
circle from the bottom of the piece,
which we had before. And we're going to
lift it up just a little bit. and we're
going to use P to separate that to a new
object. So then this is now a new object
which we can edit separately in object
mode. The reason I'm making it a
separate object right now is just
because I don't want this thing
interfering. I don't want to
accidentally select something from this
other object. I just want to get that
out of the way. So it's basically like
putting this part away on our workbench
and we don't have to worry about that
anymore for now. So we're going to take
this new circle and this thing should be
just off the surface of this shape we
had here before. And we're going to
extrude that. Right click and scale it
up outwards a little bit like this. And
then you're going to extrude it again
down along the Z-axis. You're going to
bring it up to around here somewhere and
scale it up. And also this part on the
inside, we're going to extrude down a
little bit like this. Maybe scale it
down. And now we have to take these two
edge loops at the top and we're going to
bevel them with Ctrl +B. You want to
bring them all the way close together,
but you don't want them to clip through.
So if they do clip through, you're going
to press C to activate clamping. And
that way they're only going to go as far
as this. So once they meet each other,
it's going to stop there. You're going
to click there to confirm. And again,
you want two segments, but this time you
want a shape value of 0.5. And now,
since we have a double edge loop over
here at the top where these bevels meet.
That makes this part here a little bit
sharper. And you never want to have
double vertices. So, you want to clean
those up. The way to clean those up is
to select everything, and you press M to
open the merge menu. You click on merge
by distance down here, and that's going
to take vertices which are very close to
each other. It's going to merge them
into one vertex. And that cleans it up.
And now, this is a nice curve over here
at the top. Maybe we also want to add an
extra supporting loop down here just to
tighten this up a little bit. Then we
extrude this down just a little bit
more. And this is where the fun begins.
Now we have to extrude this edge loop
down one more time on the Z-axis. We
want to bring it to exactly here. So
this is the top of this last bump over
here. And if we add three loop cuts now,
those three loop cuts should be exactly
in the middle of each of these bumps. So
we added those three loop cuts. And now
we're going to select them in edge
select mode, not in vertex select mode.
Because if you select them in vertx
select mode, the edges connecting the
vertices are also going to be selected.
And we don't want those selected. So you
have to deselect everything and make
sure to select it in edge select mode.
Then bevel this with Ctrl +B. You want
this bevel to be approximately the width
of the top of these little bumps here.
And by the way, we screwed up. We also
need another one of these segments down
here for this bump. So instead of
undoing, I'm just going to add another
section down here. And to do that, I'll
delete the vertices at the bottom here.
In face select mode, I'll select this
last face loop at the bottom. Shift S
cursor to select it to place the 3D
cursor there. And then we're going to
deselect that face loop, but select the
two face loops above that. And those two
face loops, you're going to duplicate
with shift D. Then you're going to go up
here and set the pivot point to 3D
cursor so that your selection rotates
exactly around the 3D cursor. Also, if
it scales, it scales towards the 3D
cursor and not towards its own middle.
So now we can mirror this across the 3D
cursor by pressing S to scale, Z to
scale along the Z-axis, and minus one to
reflect this by exactly one. And now
it's exactly on the other side. The
problem is that now we inverted this so
the normals are inverted as well. If you
don't know what normals are, normals are
basically the direction which the faces
are facing. So now Blender thinks that
these faces down here are supposed to be
on the inside of this object. That's why
it's shading it as such. But we're going
to correct them. So we're going to press
shift N to recalculate the normals. And
once again, we got double vertices. So
we got to select those and merge them by
distance. We need another loop cut up
here to define the top of this hole over
here. And then we select all the face
loops which are supposed to be on the
inner areas here. and you're going to
press alt E and you're going to click on
extrude faces along normals. That's
going to extrude all these faces
inwards. Then you set the pivot point to
individual origins. So you can scale
these down individually. And you're just
going to scale them down a little bit on
their Z-axis like this. And just to take
this a step further, we're going to add
two loop cuts with CtrlR to each of
these segments. Select each of those
face loops in the middle of those new
loop cut sets. And with Alt S, we're
going to inflate them a little bit to
make the bumps. And there we go. So now
you got the bumps, you got the gaps,
everything's looking nice. And this last
one here, we're just going to make it
manually. Notice how we're not exactly
following the blueprint because the
blueprint doesn't seem to be properly
aligned everywhere. It's just a picture.
It's not a perfect technical drawing. So
there's no way to make it exactly right.
It doesn't really matter. As long as it
looks reasonably close to the reference
image, we're good. So just keep on
extruding this a little bit. Keep on
scaling it up, pushing it down, doing
whatever you got to do to get the right
shape. And then we extrude it one more
time to get to the bottom here. And
there we go. Now, this is starting to
look like a little bit of a spark plug.
So, now you're going to go up here to
object and go to shade smooth. This is
only going to work in object mode, by
the way. You can do the same thing for
this thing over here at the top. Now,
just quickly, we got a little bit of
writing over here. Let me show you how
you can do that. You're going to have to
get some sort of a simple image editing
program. I like to use Canva. It's
completely free and it's super easy. You
can probably use Snapchat or whatever
the [__] You can probably get away with
the camera app on your phone. We're
going to go up here to create custom
size. Let's go with 1024x 1024 pixels.
It doesn't really matter. And now we got
a white background. We just have to type
in the letters which we see here. If you
got a logo, you're going to paste a logo
there. So, we're going to use our text
tool to add a text box. This text just
says spark. We're going to make that
nice and large. And below that, it says
plug. So, we're going to type in plug
down there. And we're going to turn up
the spacing between the plug letters a
little bit. So, let's do that. And then
you just download this a bit to your
computer. You go over here to file,
download. Now, we go back into Blender.
And now to apply this text to the
object, you have to first go over here
to your shading tab. In your node
editor, you're going to find this button
here called new to add a new material.
And here with shift A, you search for an
image texture node. And you use this
button to find the image which you just
downloaded. So that should be in your
downloads folder. Once you load the
image, you plug color into base color
here. And the reason we can't see any
text on the object yet is because the
image hasn't been mapped properly. We
have to manually tell Blender where we
want this text to appear on this object.
So, we're going to select a couple of
these faces down here at the bottom.
Press U to unwrap. Click on this first
thing up here at the top. And make sure
that this other window here is set to UV
editor and not image editor. And now you
can control this surface down here. So,
you can map this text onto the object.
We're going to have to rotate this by
minus 90°. And there you go. Now, it
says spark on your spark plug. So,
that's pretty good. While we're at it,
let's also reduce the roughness cuz this
is supposed to be nice and shiny. And
again, since we're already here, let's
also add a material to this top part.
So, select this object, add a new
material. This time we're going to turn
up metallic and just reduce the
roughness a little bit to make it look
like whatever material that is. And
there you go. Now it's starting to look
pretty nice. Now let's keep on modeling.
Now we're going to get to this nut down
here. Now I'm going to show you an 8,000
IQ trick for making this nut down here.
Now I know it looks like it's a pretty
simple object, but trust me, if you want
to do this properly, it's not as simple
as it looks, especially if you want to
keep your topology clean. Now guys, I'm
not one of those guys who's going to
tell you you got to download and
purchase two different add-ons to be
able to pull this off. [__] all that.
I'm going to show you the old school way
to make this nuts. So, check this out.
We're going to have to start with a UV
sphere. So, shift a mesh UV sphere. And
the number of segments on this UV sphere
is going to have to be a number which is
divisible by six. This is very
important. Now, we don't just want to
use something as low as six or 12.
That's not going to be enough. We have
to make this a nice round sphere. And
this number of segments has to be
divisible by six. As you can see, if
it's only 12, it doesn't look that
round. But if it's something like 72,
then it starts to look a little bit
nicer. And then this rings value down
here always has to be half of the
segments number. So in this case, that's
going to be 36. And now this UV sphere
is going to be good. Now I can't see
nothing. So we're going to select these
two objects and press H to hide them.
And then select the top vertex over here
in the middle and press Ctrl+ to expand
this selection. Maybe about this far.
Maybe not that far. Let's reduce it a
little bit to something like this. And
once we got this surface selected,
you're going to press Ctrl I to invert
the selection. And so you can delete all
the other faces except the ones which we
had over here at the top. And this is
where we can now use this to shape our
hexagon. So now we have to go to top
view. And in top view, you're now going
to add another circle. And this new
circle is going to have only six
vertices. And we want to scale that
circle down so it's just a little bit
smaller than this first circle that we
had here. Let's also lift it up so it's
above this circle so we can see it when
we go to top view. And we want to scale
everything down so that this second edge
loop here doesn't clip through the
hexagon. But this outer circle has to be
bigger than hexagon. So we're going to
have to push that outwards. Of course,
we can't just scale it cuz that's going
to [__] up the shape. So we're going to
press double G to slide it and alt to
slide it the other way like this. And
then we just extend it further in that
direction. And now it's bigger than the
hexagon. So now we take the hexagon, we
take this surface below, we join them
together with Ctrl J. And I know that if
you're a beginner, this is probably a
little bit complicated, but just play
this a couple of times if you have to.
You got to know this [__] if you're just
learning Blender. It's really important
that you know how to do this properly.
Now we're going to press K to activate
our knife tool. And we need this tool to
snap onto this vertex which belongs to
the hexagon. And that's not going to
happen unless we take this hexagon and
fill it with F. Now we take the K knife
tool. You want it to snap onto this
vertex here. You know it snapped when
you don't have this line in the
background, but it's stuck on this
little vertex here. Click right there to
start your knife cut. And you're going
to bring it all the way to this next
vertex. But you have to press C before
you do anything else to enable cut
through. That way it's going to cut the
surface which is behind the surface
which the knife tool is snapping onto
right now. Now you click on this next
vertex over here. Then you click on this
one down here. Then you click on this
one down here. We can't see the next
one. So we can just hit enter for now.
Then we just move our view down here a
little bit. And then we start another
knife cut here. Remember to press C to
cut through. You click down here and you
click over here and you bring it back to
the beginning up here and hit enter. And
there you go. Now we completed the knife
cut. And the knife tool has plenty of
other features which I'm not going to
get into right now. But again, this is
something that I covered thoroughly in
the Blender Masterass course. Now we're
going to go to face select mode. We're
going to delete all the faces from the
outside here. Also delete the hexagon.
And now we take this outer edge loop
here. You're going to extrude that down
to around here somewhere. And also scale
it to zero on the Z-axis. And you can
see now why we didn't use a hexagon, but
we use a UV sphere because we needed
this surface at the top here to be
curved. And this is the best way to make
this kind of shape while also retaining
good topology. Now, this part in the
middle we don't want. So again, we're
going to select the vertex in the middle
at the top and we're going to expand
that selection up until around here
somewhere. Maybe before we do that, we
add a loop cut over here and then we
mark that as a seam. And then when face
select mode, we can just use L to select
this and delete that. And then we can
extrude this up to create this bump or
whatever that is. Before we continue,
let's press Alt H to bring back these
two other parts. And now we can make
sure that we do this properly. So let's
bring it down here to the bottom. Let's
go back to side view. We have to scale
this nut up to around this size. And now
we just use this geometry to extrude the
bump. So there we go. We extrude it up
on the Z-axis a little bit. We scale it
down. We do whatever we got to do. Maybe
the easiest way to do it is to just
bring it up to around here somewhere.
And we bevel it with Ctrl +B with a
couple of segments like this. I'm going
to delete the top segment. And then take
the next one over here and use double G
and Alt to extend that a little further.
That just makes the angle here a little
bit better. I like how that looks. Then
of course we extrude it inwards. We
extrude it downwards. We delete the face
at the bottom with X delete faces. Then
we take this part here and we bevel that
as well. Then we want to bevel this
segment to make that nice and round. We
don't really have to be adding that many
bevels cuz we are going to add a
subdivision surface modifier to make
this softer. But when we add a
subdivision surface modifier, we have to
take care of these edges on the outside.
We have to sharpen those. So to sharpen
those, we first have to select the outer
loop. And then you also have to select
these edges on the corners here. Then
once you got those selected, you're
going to press Ctrl +B to bevel. So make
the bevel around this wide. And then
we're going to set the profile shape
here to one. Also, we need two segments.
And there you go. Now we sharpened that
pretty well. And I'm not sure what's
going on at the bottom of this nut here.
But I'm going to select this face loop
over here and use Ctrl+ to expand the
selection just a little bit, a couple of
times. Of course, we got to make sure
the 3D cursor is on one of these
vertices down here at the bottom. This
is where we're going to mirror this
mesh. Set the pivot point to 3D cursor.
Shift D. Right click, scale to minus one
on the Z-axis as we did before. Correct
the normals with shift N. And once
again, we're going to merge vertices by
distance. And I guess we're just
supposed to have a big hole down here.
So, let's extrude this up just a little
bit. We're going to bevel this part here
with Ctrl +B to sharpen it. And then
down here, we're going to attach this
next shape. So, to do that, we're just
going to duplicate one of these circles
here. Maybe it's a good idea to also
separate this by selection. My
background image spark plug looks a
little bit different from this one here,
but I like the way this one looks
better. So, I'm going to follow this one
on my pure reference. Now that I look at
it from close up, it kind of looks like
this part is supposed to be fused with
the nut. So, let's delete this circle
which we duplicated. Let's get rid of
this hole on the inside here. We're
going to delete this geometry there. And
then we're going to use this geometry
from the outside of this hole to extrude
the next part. So, first we extrude this
down to around here somewhere. Then we
add a loop cut in the middle which we're
going to scale up. Maybe we bevel that
with Ctrl +B with one segment just to
control the shape. And then this last
part we just extrude. We scale up. We
extrude down again. Then we got to take
it inside. Then we got to take it down,
extrude it, scale it up. You get the
idea. I like the way this part looks in
my reference image. So, I'm going to add
a loop gun here to the bottom side so I
can extrude this up. And that gives me
some room to take this edge loop on the
inside and lift it up. And you see now I
can make this angle here a lot steeper.
And that allows me to make this next
part. So, I can extrude this down like
this. Give me a loop cut in the middle.
We're going to bevel that with Ctrl +B
to turn it into two edge loops. And then
alt E extrude faces along normals to
bring those inwards. And then the last
part at the bottom, we just have to fill
that with F. And that's it. That brings
us to the last part, which is going to
be the screw at the bottom. Of course,
we need some subdivision surface here.
And we also have to bevel these edges to
make them sharper. So, let's do that
real quick. So, once we select all the
edges, which we want to sharpen, we just
do Ctrl +B. We add a tiny bevel there
with two segments. Shape value one. And
finally, make sure to merge your
vertices by distance. Again, make sure
to correct your normals with shift N
just in case something went wrong.
Object shades smooth. And now this bit
is ready to go as well. Okay, now we get
to the hardest part, which is this screw
thing at the bottom of the spark plug.
If you want to make this properly, we're
going to have to use some pretty
sophisticated techniques here. So, if
you're a beginner, this might be a
little bit hard to follow. I'm going to
try to explain everything as simply as I
can. Hopefully, you're going to be able
to follow. If you can't follow, then let
me know in the comments and maybe I can
make another video to explain something.
So, first we got to take this face at
the bottom and we're going to use shift
S to snap the cursor to that face. And
here with shift A, we're going to add a
new circle. It doesn't matter how many
vertices that circle has, but we have to
delete every single vertex except one on
the side here. So, deselect that one
vertex and delete all the other
vertices. And this is what we're going
to use to begin this thread thing around
the screw. So, now we're going to use
something called a screw modifier. A
screw modifier is going to extrude this
and arrange it in a circle. And if we
want to, it's basically going to shift
everything down. [__] it. Let me just
show you how it works. You go to the add
modifier tab, generate. In the generate
section, you're going to find screw. And
as you can see, by default, it just
extrudes and arranges everything in a
circle. much like the spin tool, except
here we can use a screw value here to
make it shift downwards. And that's
what's going to make it look like the
thread on a [__] screw. Now, we only
want to set the screw value here to
minus0.1 m. And we're also going to
extrude this vertex and lower it down on
the Z-axis by exactly minus0.1 m. And
now, here's the important part. You want
to set the steps viewport value here to
256.
Make sure that you're using the same
numbers that I'm using. So, we shifted
this down by exactly 0.1 m. The screw
value is set to minus0.1 m. And the
number of steps here is 256. Now let's
go to side view. We got to turn up the
iterations value here a little bit until
it matches the reference image. So it's
something like this. And now here you
can apply the screw modifier. And as you
can see, now we get this little thing.
So now we're going to add three loop
cuts over here. Make sure that the shape
you have now consists of these little
squares. If you have to, guys, take your
time. Just replay that last segment. You
have to make sure that you get this
right. And now in face select mode, we
have to select these two face loops in
the middle. Press C to activate the
brush select tool and then use middle
click to deselect four faces over here
at the beginning and also down here at
the end. Be careful. Make sure you don't
accidentally deselect something else in
the back like this. And now with I
you're going to insert this just a
little bit like this. And now the
important part is we have to select this
edge loop around the area which we just
inset. Make sure you also select these
two edges at the bottom. And then you're
going to use double G to just slide this
outwards just a little bit like this
just to give this thing here in the
middle a little bit more space. And now
set your pivot point to 3D cursor.
You're going to place your 3D cursor
onto this vertex down here. Guys, I'm
trying to be as slow as I can. If this
[__] is too quick for you, just slow
down the video a little bit to like 75%
or something. Now, take these two
vertices over here and scale them down
to, let's say, 7. That's just going to
make this part here look a little bit
more like half of a circle. And while
we're at it, let's also take the two
faces here in face select mode and scale
them down to let's say 3 or something. 3
is a little bit too low, so let's try
04. Make sure that you do the exact same
thing over here at the top. So, first
we're going to place the cursor into
this vertex. Then we take these two, we
scale them down by 7. And then we take
these two faces and we scale them down
to 04. Now let's just make this part
here a little bit less sharp. So we
select this vertex and we go 1 2 3 4 5 6
7 eight vertices down the line. We
select that vertex as well. We join
these two vertices with J. And that's
going to create a straight line between
those two vertices. So now you want to
take these vertices that were up here
before, not the two vertices which we
had selected a moment ago, just
everything between them on this upper
edge segment, and you're going to slide
those down with double G. Do the same
thing down here at the bottom. So you
join these two vertices. You take these
vertices over here, you slide them up.
Make sure you merge your vertices by
distance when you do this. And then down
here at the bottom, once again, you have
this vertex and you go 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8.
You select this vertex here. Join that
with J. Same thing down here at the
bottom. And then you slide this [__] up
to the top. And you slide this down to
the bottom over here at the top. Again,
merge your vertices by distance. And now
here comes the tricky part because now
we have to close this gap down here. So
we have to turn this into a nice even
smooth circle. We can't have this big
[__] dent here. So here's how you
clean that up. We're going to select a
couple of vertices down here. We're
going to focus on those with the full
stop on our number pad. We're going to
scale them down just a little bit and
then take these two vertices and bring
them backwards with double G like this.
They have to slide along these edges.
Then with the 3D cursor placed down here
at this vertex at the bottom, you're
going to select this entire edge loop at
the bottom. Deselect these couple of
vertices here. And now scale the
selection down on the Z-axis by 0.5.
That's going to align this part here
exactly with this edge loop over here in
the middle of the thread. And now you
can just fill this here with F. Same
thing at the bottom. You're going to
fill this with F. And that's going to
allow you to take this edge segment from
the bottom, extrude it down a little
further, scale it to zero on the Z-axis
to straighten it out. Now we got a
perfect circle which has 256 edges down
here at the bottom. And if you want to
make this here look a little bit nicer,
you can just scale this down a little
bit. Also these over here just to make
it look a little bit cleaner. And there
you go. Now we close this perfectly. We
don't have any shading artifacts
whatsoever. A good way to check for
shading artifacts is to use the math cap
which I'm using. So you go over here to
viewport shading. You switch from studio
to math cap and you click on the ball.
You click on this red one here. That's
going to make everything nice and shiny.
So you're going to be able to notice
imperfections and bumps very easily. So
for example, let's say we have a little
artifact over here. The big reflection
here is going to make it very easy to
spot that. So in this case, we don't
have any bending whatsoever. So that's
how we know we did a pretty good job. We
don't have any triangles. We don't have
any engones. The loop flow is a little
bit [__] up. As you can see, it's not
ideal, but it's not a problem for the
model. The model still looks beautiful.
Maybe there was a better way to do this.
This is the best way that I found for
doing this. If somebody's got a better
way, then you can join my Discord and
share that technique with us there.
Maybe you can outsmart me on this. And
now once again, we just have to do the
same thing over here at the top. If you
want to be able to do that quickly,
we're going to delete this little
surface over here. So, select this 4x3
surface that I selected at the top.
Then, select this vertex over here in
the middle of this narrow area. Also,
select this vertex down here. Down here,
this is the vertex in the middle of this
little semicircle. Place your 3D cursor
between those two vertices. And then, we
take this area over here. We duplicate
that. We scale it to minus one on the
Z-axis. And then, if we place a 3D
cursor onto the object origin, which is
exactly in the middle of the cylinder,
we can mirror this over the Y-axis. And
then we just got to get rid of a couple
of the faces which we have here which
are currently overlapping. So we're
going to select a few vertices here
which are underneath the surface that we
just brought up here from the bottom.
And once we selected those vertices, you
got to be careful not to select the
vertices from the surface. If you're not
sure, then you can just take this and
hide it with H and delete these vertices
here. And then you bring that back with
Alt H. And now the same way we did at
the top, we're going to place the 3D
cursor onto this vertex. Select this
entire loop. You're going to scale that
down by what was that? 0.5. That's going
to allow you to connect everything here.
It also looks like this part here is not
aligned properly. So, we're just going
to use the 3D cursor to straighten that
out real quick by scaling it to zero on
the Z-axis. And now, we just have to
take the rest of these faces up to the
top. So, we place the 3D cursor to the
top here. We select this edge loop at
the top, deselect these two vertices,
extrude that, right click, scale it to
zero on the Z-axis. Make sure to select
everything and merge vertices by
distance with M. Make sure to correct
your normals with shift N. And there you
go. Now, that's [__] beautiful. So,
now we just have to create the thread.
And the way to do that is as follows.
You're going to use alt rightclick to
select this loop which goes exactly
through the middle of the thread which
we made earlier except we're going to
deselect these vertices here and also
this vertex on the outside of this
little semicircle. Then go down to the
bottom and make sure you deselect the
exact same vertices. So we only have the
vertices inside the thread area selected
which means now we can just do Ctrl+ to
expand the selection a little bit. And
now we have only the thread surface
selected. So now we're going to go up
here to select select loops and we're
going to click on select boundary loop.
That's going to select only the edges on
the outline of the selected surface. And
the reason we're doing this is so that
we can go Ctrl E mark seam. So that if
we mark this as a seam in face select
mode up here, we can use L to select
this surface instantly. And that way if
we deselect it for whatever reason, we
can just select the whole thing one more
time and continue to work with it. So
once we select that, we're going to use
controll minus invertex select mode to
only select the loop on the inside. And
with Alt S, we can just inflate that.
Now, my thread currently is a little bit
too thin. So, I'm going to have to do
something about that. So, I'll select
the entire surface on the inside. In
edge select mode with shift, alt
rightclick, I'll deselect these
horizontal edge loops. And then the ones
that remain selected, I can just scale
up by, let's say, a factor of two. The
only problem is now I have to get these
other vertices out of the way cuz
otherwise they're clipping through. So,
I'll select this edge loop at the top
here, and I'll slide it up with double G
to bring it up to around here somewhere.
Same thing with the other one over here
at the bottom. We're going to bring that
down. And now when we take this loop
from the inside, we can inflate it with
Alt S. We're going to inflate it just a
little bit and then deselect the first
and the last vertices. Then we inflate
it a little bit more. Then we deselect a
little bit more. If you want to make
this quicker, you can probably also use
your G-stretch tool for this. So inflate
everything. And then we take this vertex
over here, which is at the top of this
slope, and this last vertex here in the
middle. And if you select everything in
between them, you can use loop tools
G-stretch. And if you set this to spread
or something, then it's going to turn
that into a straight line. If you don't
have your loop tools here, then you have
to go up here to edit preferences, get
extensions, you got to type in loop
tools. You got to download this [__]
from the internet. You don't have to go
anywhere. It's just going to download it
here for you. And then you go to
add-ons, you search for loop tools, you
check the box, and then you're going to
have your loop tools ready. And now that
we got the thread, it's up to you if you
want to use a subdivision surface
modifier with this. Whatever you do,
you're going to have to add a little bit
of supporting geometry. So, for example,
in this case, we select the entire inner
area and we press I for inset, but then
we press O for outset to make this
little extra edge segment around this
thread. You also might want to select
the entire peak. And once you select the
entire peak, then with controlB, you add
a little bevel there. That bevel's going
to have a profile shape, one and two
segments, and that's just going to
sharpen the edges a little bit. Only
problem is that leaves you over here
with an end gone. So, you might want to
slide this to the end. Then we got a
triangle, but [__] it. And there you go.
Now, we got some pretty good thread. We
could have done it better by avoiding
having this geometry here so squeezed
together. I might redo this later on off
camera. Maybe some of you guys can pull
it off better than I did. But now we
should probably take this entire thing
in an object mode. We're going to press
S to scale. Shift Z to exclude the
Z-axis from the scaling. So we're only
making it thinner. And that way we're
just going to make it a little bit
thinner so it matches the reference
image. And now this last part at the
bottom, we're just going to speedrun cuz
this video is already way too long. But
we're going to extrude this segment
inwards. And that has to match the
thickness of this little thing sticking
out. So we got to scale it down to
around this size approximately. We want
some loop cuts here to turn this in
little squares. And then from top view,
we have to select a surface which we're
going to extrude there. So let's start
with something like this. We got the
X-axis here so we can make sure that
it's even on both sides. Let's add six
rings to this side and also six rings to
the other side. Maybe a little bit more
just to make it a little bit wider. So
right now we got 18 by 11 edges. We
insert that inwards with I. We delete
the surface on the inside. You take four
edges from each corner like I'm doing
right now. Once we select every corner,
we're going to use our loop tools to
relax them a little bit. So, you press
W, loop tools, relax. You set the
interpolation here to linear, but we're
going to set the number of iterations to
three. Maybe one more time, but this
time just with one iteration. This makes
the corners here nice and round. Now, we
have to use our grid fill tool to fill
this in. So, go up here to face grid
fill. We have to adjust the span to
whatever is suitable for this situation.
So, I think something like 15 16 should
do it. Turns out 18 and minus 3 works
best. So, now first we have to extrude
it down once just a little bit. And then
we extrude it and scale it down. And
this is the part which we're going to
use to extend this thing out. So extrude
to bring it out to here somewhere. Then
you rotate it a little bit. Then you
controllclick scale it down with shift
Y. And just keep doing that until we get
all the way to the end. Once we get to
the end, we're going to again add a
bunch of loop cuts here to turn these
faces into little squares here cuz we
don't want long and thin faces cuz
that's bad topology. Then we take this
edge loop over here at the bottom. We
tear that with V to separate it. And we
select one of these edge loops from the
corner. When we select that one edge
loop that goes all the way along this
little curve, we can go up here to
select, select loops, and click on edge
rings. That's going to select all the
parallel edge loops on this mesh. So
now, once again, you go to loop tools,
relax, you set that to linear, you set
the interpolation to 25. Maybe do that
one more time. And when you do that,
it's going to turn this into a nice
curve. The only thing we still have to
do is make a little bevel up here at the
top to make this part round. We want
that to have a shape value of.5. And we
got to bevel these edges around the
outside over here to make sure we don't
get shading artifacts. And even though I
probably don't have to show you this
after all we've been through, but just
so you can't say I didn't show you,
we're going to add this little cylinder
down here. Whatever that is, that's the
part that produces the spark, I believe.
Since we are using a subdivision surface
modifier, I'm going to replace the
endgon here with a nice grid fill. And
there we go. Now the spark plug is all
finished up. You might want to just add
a couple more basic materials here.
Guys, if you found this video useful,
then make sure you go check out the
Blender MasterClass course. At least
like the damn video and subscribe to the
channel. Let me know down in the
comments if I missed anything important
here or if I didn't explain something
properly. If you made your own spark
plug from this video, then come show us
on the Discord server. That's all I got
for you. So, I'll see you guys in the
next one.